Blue Grn Deployment
AWS Inspector for security vulnereabilities
SQS visibility timeout to process long taking jobs at once.
Fn:Parse is not an intrinsic function at Cloud Formation
Auto Scaling: Terminating state after leaving steady state health check failure decrease load. 
Route 53 health check on AWS. Will ping every 10-30 seconds
Scope of Elastic IP is the region
EBS Scope: Availability Zone
EIP Scope: Region
AWS AD connector large up to 5000 people
OpsWorks does not work with spot instances, makes damn. sense.
AMI baking, snapshots can be used for other snapshots.

Subscribe your continuous delivery system to an SNS topic that you also tell your CIoudFormation stack to publish events into.
Zero IOPS means EBS is not available
AWS CONFIG does not support monitoring directly
applications have environment, environment have deployments. stacks have layers, layers have instances.
blue current version. green new version
Elastic Beanstalk pulls from SQ.
Set the metric to prevent overscale.
Use MFA on all accounts including root, use SSO for temporary accounts.
Easy debugging dead letter queue.
Firehose / Redshift : SQL compatible
Server immutable: not able to update after creation. swap environment blue green. 
Cloud Front global scale distribution
5 Elastic IP limit per region.
spot-reserved-on demand: cheap to expensive
multi master multi region dynamo DB active directory, BASE design principles.
EBS max supported 320 IVmb/s
limit increase for concurrent lambda functions default: 100.
primary key selection effects dynamoDB performance.
split is not an intrinsic function at CloudFormation
no need to rotate access keys for IAM
RDS in public subnet is security risk.
Cost allocation tags
S3 not available -> Snapshots in S3 also not available.
AWS Config to monitor stack.
DependOn at CloudFormation: Circular dependency
use 9001 MTU for JumboFrames
Use MFA for best Sec.Prac. Single Sign On for temporary users.
Server immutability: not updating the server after creation.
Put the RDS always in the private subnet.
the db and there questing system are both in the wrong availability zone
different users cloudwatch + cloud trail events
use cloudwatch services in every service to keep logging at one place.
ELK stack: Kibana + Elastic Search
Auto scaling after steady state : Pending . Scaling down-> Terminating
Use long as possible to reduce network load

Lambda simultaneous connection limit can be increased UPDATE_ROLLBACK_FAILED
EBS is limited to Availability Zone
spot->reserved->on demand
Scaling speed: lambda<ecs< rds
cretae second elb auto scaling launch configuration launch control. aws code commit code deploy.
non -empty IO queue: EBS is not available.
gamin leadership bard dynamo db table with equal red and write.
reads happen more and more times than writes. caching is to be used with dynamoDB on ElasticCache.
CloudWatch pulls from SQ queue. CloudWatch RuleScheduleExpression to periodically analyze IAM credential log.
make sure that databases and requesting system are both operate in the same AZ.
Purchase heavy utilization reserved instances to run the accounting software.  instance will run at predictable manner during the day. Bid sot instances as second option.
1GB queue message Kinesis to Buffer stream. Modify S3 to keep messages 
Elastic Beanstalk deployment model. applications have environments, environments have deployments, stacks have layers, layers has components.
Applications group local services which belong to applications and represent different deployment models like production, development and testing.
Spot->Reserved->On demand.
Multi region multi master deployments active active dynamo db configuration for digital payment. Bec. ACID does not provide good performance for large scale application.
Only the sort key can be different from the table. Local Secondary Key properties..
Large scale AD connector for 2000 people.
BYO license Oracle. Postgres, Maria, Mysql licenses can be used with in AWS.
First Snapshot: full block range allocation. second snapshots does not need it.

Never select game id as primary key. for the table
FN:StackARN and FN:Split is not the intrinsic functions at Cloud Formation.
Spot instances can not be used with OPSWorks.
Model your stack in one template for cloud formation. state management. Like in Terraform keep state in S3 with versions.
ECR keep different versions of docker images.D. 
AWS Elastic Beanstalk fast deployments, auto LB< AS
Global CloudTrail for once a week, 
Lambda, ECS, RDS
Snapshot block reading does not happen at second snapshot.
Second ELB stack  no IOPS filled EBS.
No need to rotate IAM as they are auto rotated.
RuleScheduleExpression at S3. Store snapshots, encrypt disable versioning
Use a <code>Parameter</code> for <code>environment</code>, a
Use MFA on all users and accounts, especially on the root account.
swap deployment blue green
ops works do not work with spot instances.
heavy util reserved instances for accounting
pass queue messages checkpoint id at 1gb each at kinesis.
aurora mysql
A. Use the AWS CIoudFormation <code>VaIidateTempIate</code> call before publishing changes to AWS.
ruby +sql : Elastic beanstalk 
A. Create a global AWS CIoudTraiI Trail
A. Create a second ELB, Auto Scaling Launch Configuration, and Auto Scaling Group using the Launch Configuration> cost explorer for limits, budget explorer for remained balance. inspector for security vulnerabilities. 
trusted advisor for available services, system manager keep configuration changes at one place. System Manager keep the state information of the deployment status for different use cases. blue green deployment snapshots first one needs block reading, second one does not need to read the same blocks as first one already read once. 
other deployment types: Canary, Blue-green, redundant, reliable. 
scale up after steady state pending. scale down after steady state pending.
scaling up and down machines show different levels of state changes. Snapshots can be stored at s4 with the condition encrypted enable versioning.
create second ELB stack for accounting machine. since the first machine is not enough. No need to rotate IAM roles.
Route53. Use MFA on all users and the root account pass.
server immutabiily can not change after creation.
the database and requesting system are both in the wrong availability zone.
empty network payload create additional load, use longer polls as possible to prevent.
dynamo only the sort key can be different.
limit increase lambda executions(API Gateway 500 requests per second optimal, as in Lambda 100 requests per second.)
If stack is giving UPDATE_ROLLBACK_FAILED you can update agan.
Scope of EBS->Availability zone, Scope of IAM->Global.
For instance, use AWS cognito and Web Identity Federation to enable logins with facebook, google.
2 ELB and 2 ASG deployment: A/B Deployment or Canary testing.
If S3 is down you can not create snapshots from images.


D. DynamoDB table with roughly equal read and write throughput, with EIastiCache cachin


One solution would be to cache these reads at the application layer. Caching is a technique that is used in many high-throughput applications, offloading read
actMty on hot items to the cache rather than to the database. Your application can cache the most popular items in memory, or use a product such as EIastiCache to do the same.

D. Use a CIoudWatch Rule ScheduIeExpression to periodically analyze IAM credential log. With CloudTrail.

B. The database and requesting system are both in the wrong Availability Zone.

C. AWS CIoudTraiI; CIoudWatch Events

D. Begin using CIoudWatch Logs on every servic
C. Pending
B. Use as long of a poll as possible, instead of short polls.
B. Only the sort key can be different from the table.
C. You did not request a limit increase on concurrent Lambda function executions.
IAM Global, EBS Availability Zone. 2 ELB 2 ASG: BlueGreen.
Zero IOPS: EBS volume is unavailable
D. DynamoDB table with roughly equal read and write throughput, with EIastiCache caching
C. Poll using <code>ListStacks</code> / <code>Iist-stacks</code>. Autohor automation in the script. Only polling will make the script complete.
C. Ctate another ELB and ASG on top of the first one. Adding one more tier.
D. GameID as the hash key, highest score as the range key.
C. The reuesting system and the database are both in the wrong availability zone.
D. Use SQS queue and set polling long for long processing jobs.
D. HTTP speaking API Route 53 Health checks.
Increae lamba per second executions.
Bake an AMI to new machine. if the S3 is broken there won't be a spawn.
Fast: Lamdba, ASG, ESG, RDS
Multi region, multi master deployment
D. If the NAT routing fails all deployment fails.
C. AWS CIoudWatch Metrics + Billing Alarm + Lambda event subscriptio

C. 5556
A. Use CloudTrai| Log File Integrity Validation.
B. Use a large AWS Directory Service AD Connector.
D. cfn-request is not a CloudFormation script
C. Kinesis(stream buffer service) to replicate event across two systems. Also kinesis can generate alarms, change pricing, advertising, send data to other AWS services.
D. ElasticBeanStalk can be used within teams with limited AWS knowledge.
A. cat pictures amazon Cognito and web identity federation.
C. Subscribe long polling to amazon SNS and use long polling to reduce the load at netwrok payload.
D. No need to rotate IAM keys as they are auto rotated globally.
A. Intrinsic function: Built in fn:split, fn:stackArn
D. RDS in public subnet is the very insecure.
A. Lambda stream specification and send changes to Lambda. Sending logs to CloudWatch will make the system resilient. 
Stacks have many layers, layers have many instances.
2000 engineers Active Directory. 
Restoring an encrypted snapshot makes the launched instance also encrypted.
2 servers in each AZ. 
The system did not include repair logic, and self healing happend only after failure.
With the scaling system launching takes sometimes long time the new instances are not launched in the time given. 
Use dead letter queue, makes it possible to analyze messages during process.
Analyze IAM by using RuleScheduleExpression.
Highest score as the range key, game id as the hash key.
Create second ALB and ASG if needed. 
Server Immmutability: not updating server after creation. 
Swap environment BlueGreen deployment.
Visibility timeout for long processes. 
Rollback_in_progress means stack rollback is failed.
OpsWorks cookbook repositories: EBS 
Fastest possible rollback with blue green deployment. Basically having 2 different versions, and swtich between whenever any issue occurs with one of the versions.
Review cloudwatch metrics to see which component is the reason of failure.
Allow nodejs resource composition at lambda.<code> zipfile <code>.
Lmbda ecs, rds.
code extension by github aws organizations.
Buffer and transfer mechanism for APIs: Kinesis
AWS Iam globally available, EBS AZ. CloudTrail to create who is doing what at which time.
Placement group in the instance inside AZ.
Sometimes new jobs are malformed that's why they are not processable.
Cost alloction tags. 
AWS config does not support directly opsworks.
Model an AWS EMR job in cloud formation.
Llifecycle scripts for the first instance, second from s3 bucket manifest direct reads for cat pictures(http api on g2 instances).
Elastic Beanstalk rolling deploy option to progressively change deployment with code changes promoting across environments.
EBS snapshot scope: Region.
Worker tiers pull job from SQ
CloudFormation nested stacks. Cyclic Dependency = DependsOn.
First time snapshot full block allocation
*Game ID as the primary key.
AWS directory service AD connector. 
Model in one template and leverage at CloudFormation
Use a <code>Parameter</code> for <code>environment</code>, and add a 

Create a Route53 record automatically in CIoudFormation :<code>Condition</code> on the Route53 <code>Resource</code> in the template
to create the record only when<code>environment</code> is not <code>production</code>.
Use MFA in all accounts especially the root account.

aws agent supportsproxies(windows or linux)

Create separate staging and production accounts to segregate deployment targets. Use AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) to store environment-specific values. Use CodePipeline to automate deployments with AWS CodeDeploy.

Kinesis Firehose and Kinesis streams to write logs in ES. Enable CloudWatch subscription filter.















Ping(get IP),Slowloris, Thorshammer. Metasploit, Burpsuite(repeater, intruder). SET RHOST, SET RPORT, SET PAYLOAD, search exploit, use <metapreter>, run,















